---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Races/Dragonborn/"}
---

#race 
## Dragonborn 
Often rare in number and rarer still in appreciation, dragonborn are exiled by both humans and dragons-alike. For being a dragonborn meant a human and dragon had to mate. The countless casualties that lay in the many battlefields of humans and dragonkind alike as a result of conflict between the two sour the taste of many rural-folk towards those borne of the mixing of draconic and human lineage. Similar disdain is had for draconic sorcerers if they are human. 

However, in general the dragons have often only pillaged primarily human settlements and the only ones that send adventurer's of a serious enough calibre to injure a dragon would be humans. It is said in folk tale that the first dragonborn was widely celebrated. Thousands of years ago, the first real war against dragons led by humanity was abruptly ended when the queen of the warring human nation of Kefer revealed her daughter was pregnant with the child of a dragon. Being such a novel occurrence, the dragon king, Atorvastat, chose to hold off the war until the child grew into adulthood (whether that be the 18 years for humans, 100 years for dragonkind or somewhere in between). In the meantime, the kingdom blossomed with trade between the two nations and many dragon-children were conceived (as much as 100 according to now antiquated records). Though it was not without hardship, despite the newfound friendship, the child who's name was forcibly erased from history grew unhappy. It possessed naught the intellect/wisdom of the dragons but it did possess their strength. It did not possess the weakness of the humans but it did possess their bravery and battle hunger. For him, peace was a war in his mind that he could not win. So he began to sow discord within the ranks of both nations that had welcomed him with open arms. In naught but 30 years after the peace accords were signed, civil war laid waste to many caught in its crossfire. Families turning against one another, star-struck lovers striking their beloved and trust eroding quickly. If it wasn't for the clever detective work of a Gregory Home, the true culprit behind the civil war, the once beloved dragonborn child, would not have been found. He was put to death and everything that bore his name was stripped from the record. Considering he bore the 9th popular boy's name at the time, this resulted in an extensive wiping of many crucial parts of history. Even following his death, neither side wished to admit it was their fault that this boy had committed such an atrocity. Reeling after the loss of many lives, they blamed the dragonborn children for their downfall. Each side believing them to have some sort of allegiance to the other side (though in their hearts they knew this was false). Dragonborn as a result often wear hoods when talking to countryfolk and hide their stature behind imposing suits of armour. That's not to say their entire reputation is bad though. Following the retirement of [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Cixen Liu\|Cixen Liu]], King Irmin appointed [[Escito the brave\|Escito the brave]] to be head of [[Swordfish 2\|Swordfish 2]]. Thanks to Escito the brave's handiwork as the head of [[Swordfish 2\|Swordfish 2]], people saw Dragonborn in another light. As great knights who did not hesitate to charge in battle and deliver devastating blows against the criminal underbelly of [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Hanuel/Dornfells/Dornfells\|Dornfells]] such as the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Iron Shadow\|Iron Shadow]].


