---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Races/Elves/"}
---

#race 
### Elves 
Elves proclaim themselves the second oldest species of this Earth. Unlike Dwarves, their origins are quite clear atleast in their shared mythology. They say when a drop of Rukkadevata's blood was first dropped onto Earth, it fell into the region now known as "[[The Glass\|The Glass]]". A freezing cold lake that would suck up the very moisture of anyone who dared to step into it, they say it was the coldest part of existence, even colder than the outer-planar battleground of [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]] and [[Compendium/Lore/Deities/Agni\|Agni]]. So when the fire-y hot blood of Agni dropped into the lake, it was so hot it boiled the lake and the droplet alongside it. The condensed vapour turned the whole lands around into into an icy tundra where before temperate rainforest had permeated the area. Naturally considering the blood of a dragon is the basis for [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Magic\|Magic]], the last non-liquid residues of this droplet in the lake bore new life. A life that was forged out of magic and one that embodied the elegance of the art. At this time, magic as a field wasn't even around so it created beings who had a fractional amount of magic within their systems pulsating with power. This power led them not astray as it does for many races but instead it led them down the path of civilization building. This is often why Dwarves and Elves fight over the title of the second civilization as early Dwarven civilizations were primarily built underground whilst the  Elves built them overground. Considering the humans also stuck to the surface, human records showcase Elven development being the first but that is contrasted by Dwarven claims of first settlement in the region of [[Adimeskha\|Adimeskha]]. Their personal interconnection with magic and their claims of being the second oldest civilization have led them to conflict with the Dwarves though they do not bear much hatred for each other. An interesting fact about their magical origins is that they do not feel the need to sleep. This was a plague amongst early Elven societies as many would still tire and die after countless sleepless nights. When considered in conjunction with their meagre populations, long life spans and low birth rate: this almost led to the collapse of the earliest signs of Elven civilization before it had even started. It was only thanks to humans who when they integrated some Elven strays into their human society and mannerisms (such as sleep) that the Elven technique of "Trance" or deep meditation was discovered. This unique method of recovery allows for replenishment of stamina at twice the rate of most races. This combined with their relatively low muscularity has led to Elves being a creative powerhouse and in sometimes within scholarly fields too. They share a deep bond with humans as the first Elven civilization did indeed collapse. It was the ones who intersected with the humans that managed to survive and thrive + eventually create their own civilizations. While too extensive to get into much detail about, the Drow are the most interesting and unfortunate to note in terms of civilization. They had gotten separated during a long voyage from what we now know as [[Salskirk\|Salskirk]] to discover what lay beyond the land. It was there they would enter through an untraceable phenemonon (some scholars believe it to be a magic leakage of sorts while others postulate it might have been divine intervention) causing their physiology to mutate rapidly. This rapid mutation is what is believed to have led to the creation of the [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslaggian\|Dravinslaggian]] civilization or as it was known back then Methylphen. This mutation affected different elves in different ways hence the creation of the species of Lizardfolk, hobgoblins/goblins, bugbears and Yuan-Ti alongside the Drow. However, this is still merely conjecture as it could be that sapient life evolved within the [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslaggian\|Dravinslaggian]] empire on its own. But the sporadic nature of multiple convergent evolutions where one should have outcompeted the other is highly suspect and most scholars in genealogy agree on this common consensus. 

##### Common misconception: Elves are haughty but not unkind
There is a stereotype perpetuated in certain sects or communities that Elves believe themselves superior to most if not all (with the notable exception of humans). That is true. What is not true is the belief that Elves treat others disrespectfully as a result. Most Elves do indeed believe themselves superior and some go so far as to believe others are tools or pawns to be used. HOWEVER, a tool must be well cared for or else it will break or dull. Even the most pretentious and ethnocentric elves treat others with some respect as it serves them well to curry favor with the most powerful factions or the lowly working class. The wood elves specifically showcase this behaviour (rare though they might be) in how they hunt/fish/settle in a fashion so sustainable the surrounding environment often grows more lucious near their camps. This isn't to say they aren't above prejudice as many wood elves are naturally distrustful of those who look like them. A big part of this is because wood elves (though they will not admit it) had evolved in different conditons when they were banished from the largest Elven-Human settlement in the times of old, usually for frivolous crimes that had no reason to come attached with exile. An example of one of these crimes would be "wearing a red top with a green bottom" or "having a untethered flying creature on Saturdays". Regardless, though the exact reasons are oft forgotten, in their instincts there is a distrust for the elegant graceful appearance of the humanoid factions. Some wood elven tribes or clans will go so far as to mutilate themselves into unwieldy forms. 

### Half-Elves
Half-elves unlike dragonborn aren't feared, or treated any differently than regular Elves. While they do not share enough magical potential to trance, they are a natural byproduct of civilizations that have co-existed and procreated with each other for a long time. The only ones you will see begrudging those of this mixed ancestry are the most proud and arrogant of Elven and Humankind alike.  