---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Races/Half-orcs/"}
---

#race 
## Half orc

Half-orc is actually an unrepresentative term for members of this race born out of an early slur used by certain communities to refer to them. Orcs in general are unintelligent and generally represent the likes of monsters that [[Adventurer’s Guild\|Adventurer’s Guild]]s would slay or send out. However, one tribe of orcs that had somehow wandered ashore into [[Impasi\|Impasi]] seemingly grew more intelligent overnight. They did not have much of a record-keeping culture established and they still continued like regular orcs do for a fair amount of time. During this time due to their superior intellect allowing them to avoid walking into traps, hunt easier targets and copy tried-and-tested practices from human or elven hunter nearby, they rapidly grew in number and developed their own variant of common with unique grammatical structures that focused on efficiency in communication over pleasantries (like the Elven common variant). Eventually, it is assumed they had made friends with one of the civilized races (though it is unsure which one) and integrated into the culture. For a long time, no records were kept about them or their presence in records were altered to show different races. Gradually as their numbers grew and they became an increasingly large portion of the workers in fields such as construction or manual labour, so too did the respect they were owed. A half-orc was thought of (and rightfully so!) as a sure-fire way to get a job done well and fast unless you were looking for friendly chatter along the way. Most of the research into their cultural origins only started within the last 30 years and thus not much else is really known about them. Generally half-orcs stay out of academia but they are known for their exceptional adventuring skills. Strong in musculature and of considerable heft, often times people are somewhat cautious around them. The more ethnocentric populations believe them to be mindless brutes who are faking their intelligence so they can launch a suprise attack on an unsuspecting person. This is naturally false but these fears do still exist in certain parts of the population. The term "half-orc" came from the belief that despite them being civilized, they should still be treated as being just as brutish as orcs.