---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Races/Tieflings/"}
---

#race 
## Tieflings

If Half-orcs or Dragonborn face quiet bigotry, then Tieflings are the ones who have to see hatred in its ugliest form. Tieflings are borne not always through reproduction. While two tieflings procreating can produce a tiefling, the genome isn't strong enough to create a mixed race or to over-ride the genetic traits of a non-tiefling partner so tieflings can only continue their bloodline if they find a fellow tiefling to reproduce with. That is not the point that invites bigotry, the part about tieflings people hate is the fact they are the only race that you can give birth to without conceiving with them. The mechanism is unknown but since the Tieflings are suspected to be of the same origin as devils, when they die unlike most their souls do not pass on to whatever afterlife may await. Unlike those that become part of the undead, Tieflings also do not inhabit a ghostly shell either. Instead, a Tiefling soul will aimlessly wander around until it finds a woman pregnant with child and "infect" it. In essence, the child becomes another Tiefling despite the mother never having had sexual contact with a Tiefling. This alongside their devilish appearance has led to them being feared as a disgusting abomination and for robbing mothers of the chance to have a "normal" child. As a result, many tieflings are persecuted and those who aren't only manage to avoid the ire of the general populace with their extreme amount of charisma that they've developed as a coping mechanism. Prior to the knowledge of their reproduction being widespread (and even in current day amongst lesser educated people), a tiefling child was believed to be a curse for a great mortal sin that the mother or father of that child had committed. For most tieflings, coming from a stable home that loves them might be too much to ask or even hope for. This is also why Tieflings are often seen in criminal organizations that promise them freedom from judgement. 

However, this problem is somewhat alleviated as population density increases. Certain cities are amicable to Tieflings and this is where they thrive. Thanks to their devilish charms, Tieflings make excellent bards and performers. Not only that but politicans, lawyers and practically any profession that utilizes their charismatic nature. Though their charisma isn't entirely due to just their bloodline. Tieflings find that if they are charismatic enough, they can often overturn the connotations of negativity people have against them. Unfortunately, due to their method of reproduction though it is not by choice, they still face ire in many places. 

### The Genocide of Sebeth
Disputed amongst scholars on whether to classify it as a genocide or not, the Genocide of [[Sabeth\|Sabeth]] was an atrocity that took place 10,000 years PR (Pre-[[Compendium/Lore/Events/Ragnarok\|Ragnarok]]) before the scientific community understood how Tieflings are produced, mothers who gave birth to a Tiefling child were considered to be immoral pleasure seekers that couldn't help themselves and were given divine punishment as a result. Armed with this belief, it was ruled that those who bore a Tiefling child, should not be allowed to reproduce as they must carry evil within their very veins. Moreover, Tieflings themselves were considered a product of evil and thus must not be allowed to continue their bloodline either. In the small kingdom of [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Pangea/Luoth/Luoth\|Luoth]], this meant women who gave birth to a Tiefling were spayed so they could procreate no longer. However, after the twin birth of Cassandra Petravic, who gave birth to a tiefling child and a human child: it was deemed Tiefling-ism must be a recessive trait passed down through bloodlines. When combined with the fact Tiefling offspring (if their partner is of non-tiefling origin) do not share or resemble the traits of their Tiefling parent, this led to the Genocide of Sebeth for Tieflings. This meant Tieflings across the kingdom were rounded up and forced to be spayed or castrated to prevent their reproduction. Many scholars consider this to be a full-on genocide and as such deem the Kingdom of [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Pangea/Luoth/Luoth\|Luoth]] pay reparations for this vile act. Espescially considering the Tieflings were told that they would be given reparations for the prejudice against them as a way to round them up for this genocide.  