---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Lore In Campaigns Past/Nexian Portal Crisis/"}
---

The Nexian Portal Crisis was a monumental crisis spanning for a sum total of four years. Once the [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Lore In Campaigns Past/The Flashborn\|The Flashborn]] had returned from their travels, none really believed them. Espescially considering the sheer absurdity of a world so unlike their own. Members such as [[Ilya\|Ilya]] or [[Astrophel\|Astrophel]] returned to their respective fields but it was noted that they had become immortal. However, once this incident had long been forgotten about, many portals began opening up in the most random of places. The only connection was that many unique monsters or adventurers were targeted by these portals. They would appear for none more than a few seconds, take in a victim and then just as quickly return them to their plane of existence. However, the victim would appear to lose many of the memories that had made them who they are. For example, certain fighting styles were lost to some of these portals as it turned seasoned adventurers into bumbling fools. Once an ancient Solar Dragon was even sucked in and when it came out, its biology seemed far less potent. Its once all-consuming heat breath was reduced to a mere fraction of its power as was the wisdom it had cultivated over millennia. These portals always disappeared too fast to catch and many kingdoms agreed on a temporary truce until they could investigate the source of this mystery for themselves. The Heme [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Lore In Campaigns Past/portal\|portal]] was the first one to remain stable and benign. Everyone part of the truce agreed to send their strongest heroes to try and penetrate it. When this proved futile, every able-bodied individual from strongest to weakest was asked to attempt to enter the portal. But it would outright reject the entry of most strong adventurers no matter their force output. This portal was part of [[Sol's Reformation Plan\|Sol's Reformation Plan]] hence why it forbid entry to those stronger than it. 