---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Lore In Campaigns Past/The Flashborn/"}
---

> The Flashborn is the unofficial name of a series of people who were the first to experience the [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Lore In Campaigns Past/Nexian Portal Crisis\|Nexian Portal Crisis]]. These individuls were forcibly taken from their current location when a portal opened up nearby. The most notable member is [[Ilya\|Ilya]] who has a connection with [[Compendium/Party/Player Characters/Star\|Star]]. Once they entered these portals, they were taken into a version of [[Earth\|Earth]] in the year 2017. [[Ichico Nemuri\|Ichico Nemuri]] and [[Mico Vorgeil\|Mico Vorgeil]] explained they had summoned them here to help them stop the ongoing [[Compendium/Lore/Events/Ragnarok\|Ragnarok]]. The whole world was only able to continue existing thanks to [[Shield Of Aegis\|Shield Of Aegis]] which had expanded to a giant size over the African Continent. With the promise of gold, a world on the brink of existence and begging, the Flashborn took the task of defeating [[Sol\|Sol]]. To do this, they were instructed to break into a facility in Germany, steal a rocket, use [[UMA MOVE\|UMA MOVE]] to fire that rocket into space and activate the [[New Eve Project\|New Eve Project]] and fire it into [[Sol\|Sol]]. When they broke in, they had to fight against [[Shen Xiang\|Shen Xiang]] and [[Chikara Shiogen\|Chikara Shiogen]] who were being forced to fight them by [[UMA SOUL\|UMA SOUL]]. They also briefly fought [[Tella Fren\|Tella Fren]] After that battle, they solved a puzzle to unlock the rocket sequence, entered Mars and took note of [[Xilonen Yakche\|Xilonen Yakche]], [[Mico Vorgeil\|Mico Vorgeil]]'s ex boyfriend who despite all the intelligence in the world, lacked the basic emotional insight to understand her needs. After fighting an invisible [[Sean Datz\|Sean Datz]], they broke into the core of the [[New Eve Project\|New Eve Project]] and de-stablized the anti-matter core. This alongside some clever positioning allowed them to fire it straight into the "Sun" which turned out to be an egg or container for [[Sol\|Sol]]. Before getting knocked out, it created [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/UMA\|UMA]] Fantasy and [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/UMA\|UMA]] Magic before exiling them from its world, changing the genre of [[Earth\|Earth]] to be more fantastical in nature. Before it was knocked unconsious, it also enacted [[Sol's Reformation Plan\|Sol's Reformation Plan]]. The Flashborn themselves were exhiled to their respective home-planes and branded with a mark of Sol. Giving them an age-less immortality. 