---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Daylight & Weather/"}
---

#misc 
### Day/Night Cycle
Day starts universally at 6am. The sky changes from night to dawn at this time with a sudden shift. This happens independently of weather patterns which follow a 36 hour cycle. At 12pm, it becomes "day" wherein maximum brightness is achieved once again with a sudden shift. At 6pm, it becomes dusk at which point orange paints the sky as the day comes to a close. At 12am, it becomes night.

### Weather
The weather in each region (indicated by the lithospheric distinctions in biomes such as desert vs plains vs mountains) will also change on a periodic basis. This is done in a 36 hour cycle however unlike the day/night cycle, there's a less static time gate between weather patterns as each phenemenon has its own life cycle. For example, a rain cloud in the Dornfells grasslands/plains region will last for 6 hours and start from Sapone while traveling northwest towards [[Atea's Springs\|Atea's Springs]]. However, something like a mild stratus cloud formation will only last for 3 hours traveling southeast in [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Hanuel/Dornfells/Dornfells\|Dornfells]] at a speed of 30km/hr. However, these are still predictable to the same extent as the day-night cycle. The only time this pattern is disrupted is during the formation of Aurora Borealis which shifts the weather pattern forward or backwards by an unknown measurement of time for that specific region. The further you get from the equator, the more frequent the phenomena. However, unlike weather patterns, there is no set frequency of Aurora Borealis or "Northern Lights". Many citizens often rely on Adventurer's guilds in their locale to keep them updated on changing weather patterns. Cloud formations or unique weather formations are often used as a reference guide for traveling merchants making a long voyage. For example:

“Well now, if you’re aiming to find Sapone, you best keep your eyes on the sky. Track that cloud shaped like a spry little wildcat, all twisted and quirky-like. Follow it ‘til you come upon the riverbank, sure as the sun sets each day. Speaking of sunset, it’s best to wait for dusk—‘cause that’s when you’ll spot the telltale sign: rain brewing about five kilometers to the left of the old mossy tree. Now, mind you, make sure you’re looking at the mossy side, not the bare bark side, or you’ll be chasing shadows.

From there, you just follow the riverbed straight as an arrow, and Sapone’ll show itself soon enough. But here’s the thing—if you catch sight of a star-shaped cloud hanging overhead, don’t you move a step. Wait it out good and proper. That there means the skies’ll open with hail the size of turkeys, rattling down hard enough to turn a man’s hide inside out.”

### Natural Disasters
Rare and oft unheard of, these bizarre weather events only occur either randomly or as a result of disturbances to order. They share no frequency that can be tracked though many meteorology scholars believe there is a correlation between their occurrence and the occurrence of the Northern Lights.  While a blisteringly beautiful weather phenomena, many people choose to hide when they see the Northern Lights approaching.  Disturbance to order is the only time natural disasters can be predicted such as a tsunami occurring after a rock slide into the ocean. The more heavily industrialized nations are capable of mitigiating this risk with surveys of the local enviroment though superstitious  folk believe modern industry as a whole is a disturbance to natural order and may result in natural disaster forming. Interestingly the frequency of Northern Lights and of Natural Disasters are increasing gradually over time ever since [[Compendium/Lore/Events/Ragnarok\|Ragnarok]].


### Aviation restrictions
While unknown where it came from, it is a common folk wisdom that one must never repeat the tale of Helena. Helena was a woman who was stuck in a prison. Her mother fashioned a pair of wings for her to escape out of the compound with and as she began her escape, she was warned of the salty surface of the nearby sea might cause her wings to corrode. She was also told to never go too high into the air as her mother (being heavier than Helena) might not be able to protect her up in the sky. Helena flew to the height of the common bird, then higher and even higher still. Even so, she felt she had to see the world and showcase her newfound freedom so she kept rising into the air. Eventually she went too high above a layer of clouds that even the birds would dare not fly above: after a minute or so, she had dropped unconscious from the sky and died upon impact. This phenomenon is also noticed in certain bird species and in early [[Tiefling\|Tiefling]] or [[Aarakocra\|Aarakocra]] scholarly works.  As a result, most governments have established a maximum flying limit of 10,000 ft from sea-level. 