---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Magic/"}
---

### Magic
Magic is something practically anyone can learn. Intricate designs interwoven by a special ink known as woodcruror that is made by boiling the bark of a pecicular Silverwood tree is an artform. It allows anyone to utilize the very nature of the world to do many wonderous things. But 200 years ago during the [[War of the Worlds\|War of the Worlds]], the war machine of [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]] saw both sides employ extremely unethical uses of magic to put an end to the war. When a sudden burst of magic cut off Dravinslagg's magic supply. This leaves Dravinslagg as the only nation or land mass that is devoid of magic. When this event occurred, mages across the various nations came together to make the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Witch Hat\|Witch Hat]] organization. Wizards in nations answer to not just the king but the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Witch Hat\|Witch Hat]] organization but the authority of the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Witch Hat\|Witch Hat]] overrides the power of the residing nation. The strongest or what are called "the wise of X" (based on their best quality) wizards form their own independent ministry of magic that cooperates with the kingdom. The Wise are chosen to be wizards who have conflicting interests with the Kingdom. For example, if Kingdom A wants to invade Kingdom B, the Wise of Kingdom A will be from Kingdom B. Since magic is a central part of each society and part of military might, this prevents un-necessary war because if a Wise says so, the wizards in that nation will actively obstruct the war effort and stop providing their services. Moreover, while anyone can learn magic, there's a strong interest within the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Witch Hat\|Witch Hat]] organization to control access to it. The general population is fed a lie that magic can only be casted innately whether that be by being born a witch/wizard/artificer or by being chosen (sorcerous bloodline though rare, clerics who receive acknowledgement). For future purposes, the categories are "learned casters" and 
"chosen casters". The difference between these two categories is that only wizards/artificers are able to modify their magic. Since magic is cast through drawing sigils, the type of sigil, orientation and everything else can affect the type of magic produced. Higher-level magic consists of extremely complex sigils and patterns thus requiring a steady and experienced hand. If a member of the public were to see how magic is performed, then any witch but especially the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Knights Moralis\|Knights Moralis]] is allowed to intervene and erase their memory through a special memory erasure spell. This is also particularly useful in the case of the [[Rogue Silverwood Parasite\|Rogue Silverwood Parasite]]. 

### Arcane Geometry

The study of how to make magic more efficiently, the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Witch Hat\|Witch Hat]] organization often funds small research cells to extend the efficiency (eg. duration of effect) of magic. When magic is drawn, it is naturally drawn towards an area of lower concentration much like the laws of diffusion or osmosis thereby resulting in a phenomenon known as "mana drain". Mana drain can be slowed down if the ink is of a different material (often times enchanted) or more commonly if the spell is drawn in a certain way. The peak of mana efficiency occurred when [[Pythagoras\|Pythagoras]] spread his knowledge of circular spell containers (hence spell circles) which would leech mana at a drastically slower rate than before. However, circles themselves are often not drawn perfectly and thus can result in marginal mana loss over time. If an imperfect spell has a duration of 10 years, a perfect circle can allow it to have a duration of 13 years.

Spell duration: Not all spells are crafted the same. The greater the effect on reality, the greater the mana drain. A spell that can turn 1sqft of water into a small animal for 10 minutes for waste disposal will have a greater duration than a spell that can boil a lake. Part of this is due to the spell glyph increase with increasing spell complexity but it is also due to mana causing the accelerated drain of nearby mana. It is for this reason that some Arcane Geometrists such as [[Laika Stence\|Laika Stence]] have proposed a new type of wand/pen to draw magic. This dual-ink pen would push forth two differing types of ink with unque mana signatures at alternating intervals to ensure no two sufficiently large blots of mana-ink would come into contact with each other.  


## Cleric domains

