---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Zoroastrianism/"}
---

#misc 
### Zoroastrianism
They say before magic, there was only a barren world with sparse creatures. All the magic in the world was concentrated within the bodies of the two dueling dragons: the evil dragon of ice [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]] and the dragon of fire [[Compendium/Lore/Deities/Agni\|Nibelung]]. But it wasn't always this way. They used to be brothers who had created the world together. Rukkadevata was the creator who spilled his blood to create a water world. He then spun the world to such a speed that his plasma clumped at the top while his formed elements collected at the centre. The antibodies of his blood became the earliest forms of bacteria, and it created plant life in the ocean plus microcellular biological life. Once the Earth was spinning, it wouldn't stop but [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]] saw it as an opportunity to shape it together with [[Compendium/Lore/Deities/Agni\|Agni]]. [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]] inhaled deeply and held it in until his breath was warmed up inside his body then breathed it out and it created an atmosphere. The void of space now became oxygen, nitrogen and carbon dioxide within the body of [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]]. [[Compendium/Lore/Deities/Agni\|Agni]] helped form the land by using his hot breath to evaporate the water on this spinning body until it created devastating cyclones that wiped out much of the land. This made [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]]'s blood run hot (literally) and he attacked his brother [[Compendium/Lore/Deities/Agni\|Agni]] growing sick of his impatience. The salted leftovers of Agni's act had resulted in many pieces of fertile land being destroyed, many ecosystems disrupted. [[Compendium/Lore/Deities/Agni\|Agni]] struck the second blow and caused [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]]'s blood to drip onto the Earth. It still was full of life, but this time his blood was boiling as it fell into [[The Glass\|The Glass]] causing the frost to spread vertically until it created a new tundra. This enraged [[Rukkadevata\|Rukkadevata]] and it resulted in the start of their duel which lasted 10,000 years (however it is unclear if this is actually 10,000 or if it is because 10,000 used to mean "a lot" in the earlier days of script). Regardless, this was not actually a bad thing for life on earth as it had flourished in the midst of their battle. Their  rapid movements would squash hurricanes that formed in the world whilst their strikes against each other would move rain to desertified regions. The earliest known [[Compendium/Lore/Misc Lore/Zoroastrianism\|Zoroastrians]] were humans who had bore witness to the spectacle. 


In a pivotal moment, the evil dragon suddenly fell ill. Some say it was because he flew too high into the sky, others say it was due to the realization that it must slay his own brother whilst certain sects believe a powerful entity emerged into this world seeking refuge. Regardless, as it fell ill, [[Compendium/Lore/Deities/Agni\|Nibelung]] used this pivotal moment to pivot the fight in its favour. Rukkadevata struggled and struggled and breathed its icy breath into the world cursing the once fertile land to an eternity below the ice. Once dead, Nibelung used the last of its power to carry over Rukkadevata to what is now known as Arkane as a final resting place. Agni ate the corpse of his brother while sobbing. Hoping against hope that his brother could live on within his heart.  Yet as it ate the final organ left in Rukkadevata, Nibelung also fell ill. Thanks to eating Rukkadevata, he didn't fully die but became paralyzed. The paralyzed Nibelung was eaten by the many animals of the world and rotted by plants or fungi.  As the rot spread even further, his heart was the only thing that remained now tough as stone itself. But since he had so much magical life energy left, which would prove dangerous if it pooled near his heart, his veins would begin to dig around in the world to wherever it could manage to distribute the magic. The veins would nestle in the roots of Silverwood trees, wrap around rocks and form valleys as they dig through the Earth. The previously dormant non-magical silverwood trees managed to gain a level of sentience as it absorbed the magic from the dragon veins. Whenever a silverwood tree burns, a lot of mana is released into the air as gas. This is absorbed by other silver trees, of which are a rare sight. The [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Witch Hat\|Witch Hat]] organization has uprooted many of these trees so they may concentrate the power of magic used by these trees. A Silverwood is capable of extreme mana absorption but the density is based on how many are alive in a cluster root system (the Silverwoods spawn in continent spanning root masses). So the majority of the world's silverwoods are concentrated in this small region. Silverwoods, once dead and rotting, turns into woodcruor. A crude material that can become refined into magical ink. Too high mana allows Silverwoods to become truly sapient but it has an inherent evil within it. 