---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/Dravinslaggian/"}
---

### People of [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]]: Attitudes

> A population that has had much of their love for the world stamped out by the Iron Curtain of the [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]] Empire, they are usually very hostile at first encounter. Though it's not like you would really know that. [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]] forbids the entry or exit of almost all individuals (save for the chosen few loyal emmisarries chosen by the Dictator [[Mansa Drews\|Mansa Drews]]). The people of [[Dravinslaggian\|Dravinslaggian]] descent are initially (first generation) very tough and untrusting of people. But assuming any escapees are not recruited by the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Iron Shadow\|Iron Shadow]], their kin usually embrace the opposite path of their parents. This can be as a result of relying on other people's generosity to get by (thus softening their worldview, espescially when they haven't directly seen the horrors that go on within their birth nation) but it might also be because they reject the harsh discipline enforced by their parents when they are able to directly see other parenting styles. As a result, a lot of second-generation [[Dravinslaggian\|Dravinslaggian]] parents tend to be overly protective or carefree when raising their children as they hesitate to parent as harshly as their forefathers. Though, this isn't a set rule and many people diverge in their lifestyles as individuals. 
### Economic Situation/Discrimination
> Due to having escaped [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]] illegally, many Dravinslaggians tend to be extremely poor as they do not have the opportunities to acquire legal documentation and get the same rights as other citizens. Usually the only way to aquire documentation is to either enter into a marriage (assuming the laws of wherever they have fled to allow for such a thing), pay an exorbitant sum of money for citizenship ([[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Hanuel/Dornfells/Dornfells\|Dornfells]] thanks to [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Hanuel/Dornfells/Vanyra/Vanyra\|Vanyra]] has a pay-for-citizenship scheme of 300gp which is usually unaffordable for a commoner) or acquire the documents illegally. The lack of legal options accessible to them often leads to Dravinslaggians turning to a life of crime which is where the [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Iron Shadow\|Iron Shadow]] gets a lot of its members from. Though some countries such as [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Maison-Garde/Maison-Garde\|Maison-Garde]] are trying to implement refugee status considerations though it has to go through many rounds of bureaucracy. Since a staggering number of them turn to crime as a result (espescially in the major cities where [[Compendium/Lore/Organizations/Iron Shadow\|Iron Shadow]] operates), just knowing someone is of a race that's usually common in [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]] is usually considered a valid reason to be cautious or outright discriminatory towards them. 
### Races
> Due to the richness of the soil within [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]], many races thrived together in harmony within the temperate climate of the nation. Most notably when the phrase "[[Dravinslaggian\|Dravinslaggian]]" comes to mind, one thinks of [[Yuan-Ti\|Yuan-Ti]], [[Drow\|Drow]] and [[Hobgoblin\|Hobgoblins]]. That's not to say there aren't other races in there aswell but it is not commonly associated with [[Compendium/Atlas/Plane of Euthymia/Earthen Realm/Gondwana/Dravinslagg/Dravinslagg\|Dravinslagg]]. This can be an extreme social benefit to not be thought of as [[Dravinslaggian\|Dravinslaggian]] in certain situations.

#### Fun Facts!
* They're known to be really good storytellers! Some that aquire legal documentation and don't face a ton of discrimination tend to go into clubs as bards or storytellers. Tales of the [[Dravinslaggian Empire\|Dravinslaggian Empire]] are so comically evil, many believe it to be fiction. If only that was the case.

### Dictatorship
The Iron Empire is naturally devoid of magic. Due to 